README.md, before:

Introduction
============

CorrectOCR is a tool to post-process OCR text in order to improve its quality, using a number of methods to minimize annotator work. It is based on code created by:

* Caitlin Richter (<ricca@seas.upenn.edu>)
* Matthew Wickes (<wickesm@seas.upenn.edu>)
* Deniz Beser (<dbeser@seas.upenn.edu>)
* Mitchell Marcus (<mitch@cis.upenn.edu>)

See their article _"Low-resource Post Processing of Noisy OCR Output for Historical Corpus Digitisation"_ (LREC-2018) for further details, it is available online: <http://www.lrec-conf.org/proceedings/lrec2018/pdf/971.pdf>

The original python 2.7 code (see `original`-tag in the repository) has been licensed under Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 ([CC-BY-4.0](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/), see also `license.txt` in the repository).

It has subsequently been updated to Python 3 and further expanded by Mikkel Eide Eriksen (<mikkel.eriksen@gmail.com>) for the [Copenhagen City Archives](https://www.kbharkiv.dk/) (mainly structural changes, the algorithms are generally preserved as-is). Pull requests welcome!

Usage
========

Workflow
--------

Usage of CorrectOCR is divided into several successive tasks.

To train the software, one must first obtain set of matching original uncorrected files with corresponding known correct "gold" files. Additionally, a dictionary of the target language is needed.

The original+gold file pairs are then used to create _k_ replacement candidates for each token in a new given file. A number of heuristic decisions are configured based on whether a new token is found in the dictionary, are the candidates preferable to the original, etc. Finally, a CLI presents the annotator with the candidates, and a new corrected file is generated.

When a corrected file is satisfactory, it can be moved to the gold folder and used to tune the HMM further and improve the _k_-best correction candidates for subsequent files.

Configuration
-------------

When invoked, CorrectOCR looks for a file named `CorrectOCR.ini` in the working directory. If found, it is loaded, and any entries will be considered defaults to their corresponding option. For example:

```INI
[configuration]
characterSet = ABCDEFGHIJKLMNOPQRSTUVWXYZabcdefghijklmnopqrstuvwxyz

[workspace]
correctedPath = corrected/
goldPath = gold/
originalPath = original/
trainingPath = training/
nheaderlines = 0

[resources]
correctionTrackingFile = resources/correction_tracking.json
dictionaryFile = resources/dictionary.txt
hmmParamsFile = resources/hmm_parameters.json
memoizedCorrectionsFile = resources/memoized_corrections.json
multiCharacterErrorFile = resources/multicharacter_errors.json
reportFile = resources/report.txt
heuristicSettingsFile = resources/settings.json
```

By default, CorrectOCR requires 4 subdirectories in the working directory, which will be used as the current `Workspace`:

* `original/` contains the original uncorrected files. If necessary, it can be configured with the `--originalPath` argument.
* `gold/` contains the known correct "gold" files. If necessary, it can be configured with the `--goldPath` argument.
* `training/` contains the various generated files used during training. If necessary, it can be configured with the `--trainingPath` argument.
* `corrected/` contains the corrected files generated by running the `correct` command. If necessary, it can be configured with the `--correctedPath` argument.

Corresponding files in _original_, _gold_, and _corrected_ are named identically. The generated files in `training/` have suffixes according to their kind.

If generated files exist, CorrectOCR will generally avoid doing redundant calculations. The `--force` switch overrides this, forcing CorrectOCR to create new files and overwrite the new ones. Alternately, one may delete a subset of the generated files to only recreate those.

The `Workspace` also has a `ResourceManager` (accessible via `.resources`) that handles access to the dictionary, HMM parameter files, etc.

Commands
--------

*  `build_dictionary` creates a dictionary from a set of files.
   Input files can be either .pdf or .txt. It is strongly recommended to generate a large dictionary for best performance.

1. `align` aligns a pair of (original, gold) files in order to determine which characters and words were misread in the original and corrected in the gold.

2. `build_model` uses the alignments to create parameters for a HMM.

3. `tokenize` tokenizes original texts and uses the HMM to create _k_-best correction candidates.

4. Heuristic decisions: 

	* `make_report` generates a statistical report on whether originals/_k_-best equal & are in dictionary, etc.

	* `make_settings` creates settings based on annotated report.

5. `correct` run interactive correction CLI using settings.

Heuristics
----------

A given token and its _k_-best candidates are compared and checked with the dictionary. Based on this, it is matched with a _bin_.

|                            bin |  1  |  2  |  3  |  4  |  5  |  6  |  7  |  8  |  9  |
|-------------------------------:|:---:|:---:|:---:|:---:|:---:|:---:|:---:|:---:|:---:|
|                    _k_ = orig? |  T  |  T  |  T  |  F  |  F  |  F  |  F  |  F  |  F  |
|                  orig in dict? |  T  |  F  |  F  |  F  |  F  |  F  |  T  |  T  |  T  |
|          top _k_-best in dict? |  T  |  F  |  F  |  T  |  F  |  F  |  T  |  F  |  F  | 
| lower-ranked _k_-best in dict? |  –  |  F  |  T  |  –  |  F  |  T  |  –  |  F  |  T  | 

Each _bin_ must be assigned a setting that determines what decision is made:

* `o` / _original_: select the original token as correct.
* `k` / _kbest_: select the top _k_-best candidate as correct.
* `d` / _kdict_: select the first lower-ranked candidate that is in the dictionary.
* `a` / _annotator_: defer selection to annotator.

Once the report and settings are generated, it is not strictly necessary to update them every single time the model is updated. It is however a good idea to do it regularly as the corpus grows.

Correction Interface
--------------------

The annotator will be presented with the tokens that match a heuristic bin that was marked for annotation.

They may then enter a command. The commands reflect the above settings, with an additional `defer` command to defer decision to a later time.

Prefixing the entered text with an exclamation point causes it to be considered the corrected version of the token. For example, if the token is "Wagor" and no suitable candidate is available, the annotator may enter `!Wagon` to correct the word.

Corrections are memoized, so the file need not be corrected fully in one session. To finish a session and save corrections, use the `quit` command.

A `help` command is available in the interface.

Requirements
============

* Python >= 3.6

For package dependencies see [requirements.txt](requirements.txt)

Commit message:

updated readme, todo, gitignore; renamed dk corpus file

README.md, after:

Introduction
============

CorrectOCR is a tool to post-process OCR text in order to improve its quality, using a number of methods to minimize annotator work. It is based on code created by:

* Caitlin Richter (<ricca@seas.upenn.edu>)
* Matthew Wickes (<wickesm@seas.upenn.edu>)
* Deniz Beser (<dbeser@seas.upenn.edu>)
* Mitchell Marcus (<mitch@cis.upenn.edu>)

See their article _"Low-resource Post Processing of Noisy OCR Output for Historical Corpus Digitisation"_ (LREC-2018) for further details, it is available online: <http://www.lrec-conf.org/proceedings/lrec2018/pdf/971.pdf>

The original python 2.7 code (see `original`-tag in the repository) has been licensed under Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 ([CC-BY-4.0](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/), see also `license.txt` in the repository).

The code has subsequently been updated to Python 3 and further expanded by Mikkel Eide Eriksen (<mikkel.eriksen@gmail.com>) for the [Copenhagen City Archives](https://www.kbharkiv.dk/) (mainly structural changes, the algorithms are generally preserved as-is). Pull requests welcome!

Usage
========

Workflow
--------

Usage of CorrectOCR is divided into several successive tasks.

To train the software, one must first create or obtain set of matching original uncorrected files with corresponding known-correct "gold" files. Additionally, a dictionary of the target language is needed.

The original+gold file pairs are then used to create _k_ replacement candidates for each token in a new given file. A number of heuristic decisions are configured based on whether a new token is found in the dictionary, are the candidates preferable to the original, etc. Finally, a CLI presents the annotator with the candidates, and a new corrected file is generated.

When a corrected file is satisfactory, it can be moved to the gold folder and used to tune the HMM further and improve the _k_-best correction candidates for subsequent files.

Configuration
-------------

When invoked, CorrectOCR looks for a file named `CorrectOCR.ini` in the working directory. If found, it is loaded, and any entries will be considered defaults to their corresponding option. For example:

```INI
[configuration]
characterSet = ABCDEFGHIJKLMNOPQRSTUVWXYZabcdefghijklmnopqrstuvwxyz

[workspace]
correctedPath = corrected/
goldPath = gold/
originalPath = original/
trainingPath = training/
nheaderlines = 0

[resources]
correctionTrackingFile = resources/correction_tracking.json
dictionaryFile = resources/dictionary.txt
hmmParamsFile = resources/hmm_parameters.json
memoizedCorrectionsFile = resources/memoized_corrections.json
multiCharacterErrorFile = resources/multicharacter_errors.json
reportFile = resources/report.txt
heuristicSettingsFile = resources/settings.json
```

By default, CorrectOCR requires 4 subdirectories in the working directory, which will be used as the current `Workspace`:

* `original/` contains the original uncorrected files. If necessary, it can be configured with the `--originalPath` argument.
* `gold/` contains the known correct "gold" files. If necessary, it can be configured with the `--goldPath` argument.
* `training/` contains the various generated files used during training. If necessary, it can be configured with the `--trainingPath` argument.
* `corrected/` contains the corrected files generated by running the `correct` command. If necessary, it can be configured with the `--correctedPath` argument.

Corresponding files in _original_, _gold_, and _corrected_ are named identically. The generated files in `training/` have suffixes according to their kind.

If generated files exist, CorrectOCR will generally avoid doing redundant calculations. The `--force` switch overrides this, forcing CorrectOCR to create new files (after moving the existing ones out of the way). Alternately, one may delete a subset of the generated files to only recreate those.

The `Workspace` also has a `ResourceManager` (accessible via `.resources`) that handles access to the dictionary, HMM parameter files, etc.

Commands
--------

Commands and their arguments are called directly on the module, like so: `python -m CorrectOCR [command] [args...]`.

*  `build_dictionary` creates a dictionary 
   Input files can be either `.pdf`, `.txt`, or `.xml` (in [TEI format](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Text_Encoding_Initiative)). They may be contained in `.zip`-files. 
   The `--corpusPath` option specifies a directory of files.
   The `--corpusFile` option specifies a list of paths and URLs to files. One such file for a dictionary covering 1800–1948 Danish is provided under `resources/`.
   It is strongly recommended to generate a large dictionary for best performance.

1. `align` aligns a pair of (original, gold) files in order to determine which characters and words were misread in the original and corrected in the gold.
	The `--fileid` option specifies a single pair.
	The `--all` option aligns all matching pairs available.

2. `build_model` uses the alignments to create parameters for a HMM.
	The `--smoothingParameter` option can be adjusted as needed.

3. `tokenize` tokenizes texts and uses the HMM to create _k_-best correction candidates.
	The `--fileid` option specifies a single file.
	The `--all` option tokenizes all available texts.

4. Heuristic decisions: 

	* `make_report` generates a statistical report on whether originals/_k_-best equal & are in dictionary, etc. This report can then be inspected and annotated with the proper decisions.

	* `make_settings` creates correction settings based on the annotated report.

5. `correct` uses the settings to sort the tokens into _bins_ and makes automated decisions where appropriate.
	The `--interactive` option runs an interactive correction CLI for the remaining undecided.

Heuristics
----------

A given token and its _k_-best candidates are compared and checked with the dictionary. Based on this, it is matched with a _bin_.

|                            bin |  1  |  2  |  3  |  4  |  5  |  6  |  7  |  8  |  9  |
|-------------------------------:|:---:|:---:|:---:|:---:|:---:|:---:|:---:|:---:|:---:|
|                    _k_ = orig? |  T  |  T  |  T  |  F  |  F  |  F  |  F  |  F  |  F  |
|                  orig in dict? |  T  |  F  |  F  |  F  |  F  |  F  |  T  |  T  |  T  |
|          top _k_-best in dict? |  T  |  F  |  F  |  T  |  F  |  F  |  T  |  F  |  F  | 
| lower-ranked _k_-best in dict? |  –  |  F  |  T  |  –  |  F  |  T  |  –  |  F  |  T  | 

Each _bin_ must be assigned a setting that determines what decision is made:

* `o` / _original_: select the original token as correct.
* `k` / _kbest_: select the top _k_-best candidate as correct.
* `d` / _kdict_: select the first lower-ranked candidate that is in the dictionary.
* `a` / _annotator_: defer selection to annotator.

Once the report and settings are generated, it is not strictly necessary to update them every single time the model is updated. It is however a good idea to do it regularly as the corpus grows.

Correction Interface
--------------------

The annotator will be presented with the tokens that match a heuristic bin that was marked for annotation.

They may then enter a command. The commands reflect the above settings, with an additional `defer` command to defer decision to a later time.

Prefixing the entered text with an exclamation point causes it to be considered the corrected version of the token. For example, if the token is "Wagor" and no suitable candidate is available, the annotator may enter `!Wagon` to correct the word.

Corrections are memoized, so the file need not be corrected fully in one session. To finish a session and save corrections, use the `quit` command.

A `help` command is available in the interface.

Requirements
============

* Python >= 3.6

For package dependencies see [requirements.txt](requirements.txt)
